# Compressor Decompressor

The Compressor Decompressor (Codec) minor project involves implementing the GZIP compression algorithm to compress and decompress files for efficient storage or transmission. GZIP is a widely used algorithm that can significantly reduce the size of files without loss of quality.

## RAVI RAJ

- [@shuravi](https://github.com/Shuraviraj?tab=repositories) GITHUB
- [@ravi-raj-singh97](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ravi-raj-singh97/) LINKEDIN

## Technology Used
    - Java
		○ Java.io.*
			§ It provide set of input stream and output stream
	- Java Swing 
		○ It is used to used lightweight and system-independent application
		○ Part of JFC
	- Used Jframe
	- JFileChooser
		○ All file choosers


## File Input Stream 
 - file input stream is a mechanism for reading data from a file in the form of a stream of bytes. It is a type of input stream that allows you to read data from a file one byte at a time or in a block of bytes.
- FileInputStream is a subclass of InputStream class.
- It is used to read binary data like images, audio, video, etc.
- It is used to read text data from a file using InputStreamReader.
- It throws FileNotFoundException if the file is not found.
- It throws an IOException if there is an error while reading the file.

## File Output Stream
- file output stream is a mechanism for writing data to a file in the form of a stream of bytes. It is a type of output stream that allows you to write data to a file one byte at a time or in a block of bytes.
- FileOutputStream is a subclass of OutputStream class.
- It is used to write binary data like images, audio, video, etc.
- It is used to write text data to a file using OutputStreamWriter.
- It throws FileNotFoundException if the file is not found.
It throws an IOException if there is an error while writing to the file.

## GZIP input stream:

	- A subclass of Java's InputStream that provides a convenient way to read compressed data in the GZIP file format. 
	- Reads compressed data from a GZIP input stream and decompresses it on the fly, returning uncompressed data to the caller.
Can be used in conjunction with a FileInputStream to read GZIP-compressed data from a file. 

## GZIP output stream:
	- A subclass of Java's OutputStream that provides a convenient way to write compressed data in the GZIP file format.
	- Accepts uncompressed data as input and compresses it using the GZIP algorithm before writing it to an output stream.
	- Can be used in conjunction with a FileOutputStream to write GZIP-compressed data to a file.
Can optionally include a header and footer with metadata such as the original file name, modification time, and operating system used to create the file.


## Action Listener is in Java:
	
	- An ActionListener is an interface in Java's Swing GUI toolkit.
	- It is used to handle events that occur when a user interacts with a component that generates an action, such as a button press or menu selection.
	- When an action occurs, the component sends an event to all registered action listeners.
	- To use an action listener, you need to implement the ActionListener interface and override its actionPerformed method.
	- The actionPerformed method is called whenever an action event is generated by the component.
	- Inside the actionPerformed method, you can write code to respond to the user's action, such as updating a label or launching a new window.
	- You can register an action listener with a component using the addActionListener method.
	- You can unregister an action listener with a component using the removeActionListener method.
    - You can register multiple action listeners with a single component, and each listener will be notified when the action occurs.
